.TH BIDSEDITOR "1" "2025\-06\-19" "bidscoin 4.6.2" "Generated Python Manual"
.SH NAME
bidseditor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bidseditor
[-h] [-b NAME] [-t NAME] bidsfolder
.SH DESCRIPTION
This application launches a graphical user interface for editing the bidsmap that is produced
by the bidsmapper. You can edit the BIDS data types and entities until all run\-items have a
meaningful and nicely readable BIDS output name. The (saved) bidsmap.yaml output file will be
used by the bidscoiner to do the conversion of the source data to BIDS.

You can hoover with your mouse over items to get help text (pop\-up tooltips).

.TP
\fBbidsfolder\fR
The destination folder with the (future) bids data

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-b\fR \fI\,NAME\/\fR, \fB\-\-bidsmap\fR \fI\,NAME\/\fR
The study bidsmap file with the mapping heuristics. If the bidsmap filename is just the base name (i.e. no "/" in the name) then it is assumed to be located in the current directory or in bidsfolder/code/bidscoin. Default: bidsmap.yaml

.TP
\fB\-t\fR \fI\,NAME\/\fR, \fB\-\-template\fR \fI\,NAME\/\fR
The template bidsmap file with the default heuristics (this could be provided by your institute). If the bidsmap filename is just the base name (i.e. no "/" in the name) then it is assumed to be located in the bidscoin config folder. Default: bidsmap_dccn

.SH COMMENTS
examples:
  bidseditor myproject/bids
  bidseditor myproject/bids \-t bidsmap_dccn.yaml
  bidseditor myproject/bids \-b my/custom/bidsmap.yaml

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Marcel Zwiers <m.zwiers@donders.ru.nl>
.fi
